this video is sponsored by Squarespace
okay so we really need to talk about AI
everyone was freaking out when Dolly
first hit the scene but the masses
didn't have access to it yet and it was
kind of like in this strange nft slash
crypto and 2021 gray area where hey it
seems cool but it seems like a fad Well
turns out AI definitely not a fad it's
here to stay and it's all happening so
fast I actually think it's going to take
over everything and it's happening now
it's happening right now as a content
creator that is both scary and exciting
because well it's probably going to take
over a lot of mundane tasks that I hate
doing in the first place in fact in
research for this video when we were
looking up oh some of this cool Tech
that they were demoing and maybe a
YouTube clip 11 months ago well now that
same Tech is completely outdated because
of all of the new startups and companies
and algorithms that have come out since
then in fact all of these AI companies
they're in a race right now a race to
the bottom trying to build better and
cheaper options and then the even bigger
companies who already have the customer
base what they can't build themselves
they'll just buy however I would like to
argue that this race to the bottom
potentially creates a more exciting
playing field for people like you and me
for people who create stuff as these
Brands undercut each other the creators
hey we might be left with more powerful
tools for storytelling so in this video
I will be sharing 14 AI tools that you
should know about to either start using
now or to just keep an eye on you know
just keep again this is actually
something I'm pretty excited about
however it does have like a ton of
downsides and we're gonna get into that
in this video but let's start with some
exciting stuff okay so number one Avatar
AI so this is a fun one which you've
probably already experienced everyone
and I mean everyone was posting their AI
avatars last month on Instagram but
probably from an app called linza
instead of the one I used Avatar AI
there's a lot of them out there right
now the avatars come in all types of
styles and actually look pretty cool
like I had a lot of fun looking at these
go figure the thing that's gonna pop off
first is like a very narcissistic AI
tool oh I want cute pictures of me and I
want a hundred of them but the most
shocking ones were the ones that looked
like photos like look at this one this
is not a picture of me when I first
tried this it was 30 bucks for about 100
AI generated photos and took about eight
hours to generate now only a few months
later you can pay about three dollars
for the same amount of pictures and it
takes only 20 minutes in this space
undercutting and improving features
moves really fast like a little bit too
fast way too fast for this video that
I've been trying to make or we've been
having to update things every day Peter
levels who made Avatar AI also makes
something called interior AI so it
basically does the same thing but with
your space if you want to see what your
living room looks like in different
styles so it's really great for design
inspo I would check that out too number
two text to image generators if you can
tell where we're starting out with the
popular ones first okay but we got mid
Journey stable diffusion and Dolly too
all of these are basically three sides
of the same coin okay so they're AI
systems that take an input from you so
this is the prompt or natural language
and then the output is a realistic image
or a piece of art the first one stable
diffusion so this is the only one of the
three that is open source so there are
no limitations on what you can create
and you can start actually creating now
it's not in like a beta or anything
however this can lead to very bad things
like like very bad things like
generating nudes and deep fakes of
people that obviously do not consent
they are trying to shut down some of
this malicious behavior but with
something that is open source well it's
just difficult there is something even
more concerning called unstable
diffusion that is being used by even
more Bad actors um so this is where the
line really gets blurred now what about
the other two mid-journey is not open
source but it is currently in public
beta once you're in the beta your first
25 images are free and then it's ten
dollars a month for a basic subscription
the interesting part is you can actually
sell anything that you create unless
you're associated with a big company
then you need their corporate
subscription or if you're using it to
make nfts then they actually want a 20
royalty written in the smart contract I
have no idea how they're actually
enforcing this and it's important to
note that also mid-journey themselves
can also do anything they want with the
art that you create now the other
downside of mid-journey is they use a
lot of popular art and like actual
artists who sit there and make their own
stuff right and some examples of outputs
from mid-journey people have even been
seeing the little squiggly line of a
signature sure in the bottom right hand
corner of their output so you can't
really tell who the artist is but you're
like oh snap they used an artist's work
to inspire this output last but
certainly not least is Dolly too so this
is from open AI the same company that
created chat gbt which we will talk
about later so this one is in beta and
despite being from open AI is probably
the farthest away from actually being
open sourced their CEO Sam Altman is
apparently this like Silicon Valley
genius guy so obviously it's worth
watching okay so mid journey is very
hackery you apply for the beta on their
website but all of this is through their
Discord so I actually don't even know
how to do this so John do you want to
walk me through this maybe like lock off
that camera all right so just click the
message
the message yep click slash slash
imagine imagine
and then just click that
and now just type in whatever wow yeah
make sure to copy and paste the same
prompt everywhere
and then you have to kind of keep up
with where you posted okay because
everyone is posting to this same Discord
Channel which is crazy okay so it's
pretty cool so in similar fashion to
crypto the UI is just not there yet
right it's just it's very clunky and I
think that's why so much mystery is
around all this stuff wow that looks
really cool that looks really cool
really cool so as you can tell you
create on Mid journey in a very public
fashion it's in a public Discord where
everyone can see your outputs okay so up
next let's see what Dolly does oh that's
pretty cool okay so Dolly it doesn't
look as real uh the edges aren't as
refined it's more kind of just fuzzy and
I'm starting to wonder if I think Dolly
2 is the one that's actually in a very
close beta right now so this might be
like Dolly one so things don't look as
good yeah those are so bad in comparison
yeah whoa that's kind of cool again yeah
okay stable diffusion so the thing with
stable diffusion because it is open
source you basically have a lot of
different people's UI and websites and
and ways to interact with it on the web
uh because the the one that I tried
earlier doesn't look anything at all
like this because it was someone else's
version of basically doing it on the web
if that makes sense all right here we go
oh it looks pretty cool that's kind of
cool it gives you ideas and like hard
design for futures yeah yeah yeah those
experiences and those results were
actually pretty different and I also
suspect that as the months go by these
three tools will also find more features
that differentiate themselves from one
another but they definitely already have
their own aesthetic and definitely from
this image that I saw on Twitter it's
pretty obvious dolly is not it's just
not looking like the best one
I mean those people's faces are insane
my initial reaction to this was dang
yeah this actually sucks for digital
artists however if you're good at
writing maybe you'll be able to
differentiate yourself more because your
prompts are going to be super creative
right but then you have ai to now write
prompts like chat GPT so it's kind of
just like my brain kind of hurts you
know number three notion AI yeah notion
I love notion everyone loves notion
notion so notion AI is in Alpha so
that's like the step before beta and
I've actually been using it a lot I'm
sure some of you have seen websites like
Jasper or copy AI they help you write a
blog or come up with interesting titles
and honestly even they can write full
scripts and blog posts well now notion
is implementing these features directly
into the app which is genius I'm a big
fan of this okay so I'm going to take
the first three paragraphs of the script
for the video that we're filming right
now and I'm gonna go up here to AI
assist and you see that we have a ton of
options we have improved writing fixed
spelling and grammar summarize explain
this yada yada and this menu has
actually already changed a ton since I
started in their Alpha program so I'm
going to hit summarize and we'll see
what it comes up with okay so maybe I
should have just said this AI tools are
becoming increasingly
it's so powerful with companies racing
to create better and cheaper options
this video will discuss 14 AI tools that
creators can use to enhance their
storytelling
yeah okay so the make shorter one seems
better freaking out
okay see that doesn't make sense I
promise you this is good but there's
still you know hey it's not perfect okay
so it says freaking out over Dolly hit
the scene but masses lacked access bad
for a sentence don't worry you still
have your job as a copywriter this is
literally just like taking away all
necessary words like R and and or and
prepositions and things groundbreaking
AI from 11 months ago now outdated
this is almost a summarization that you
would read to understand a subject but
you wouldn't use for a script so the
whole thing with AI and all of these
tools is they're definitely not perfect
but when they hit they can hit and in
this use case it just really didn't hit
okay so this is not the best example of
notion AI being awesome but this is
something I've actually used in my
everyday workflow and I find it being
useful I would say like half the time
and it barely takes any time to use it
so for me it's a net positive they
obviously need time to work out the
Kinks number four we've already been
talking about it chat GPT and it's kind
of crazy it's insane so think of it like
Google meets a robot that you're just
chatting with it can answer all of your
questions just using natural language I
actually used it to start my research on
this video I typed explain the different
aspects of AI and it actually did a
great job so I'm not going to read all
of this but the most useful bits for
this sake of this video as well the
first half so machine learning this
involves the use of algorithms and
statistical models to enable a system to
improve performance on a specific task
without explicit programming makes sense
natural language processing I've already
said that many times this involves the
ability of a system to understand
interpret and generate human-like
language in the last one computer vision
this involves the ability of a system to
process and analyze visual information
from images or videos it also talked
about robotics expert systems decision
making Automation and Predictive
Analytics and that actually helped me I
was like okay cool thanks chat then GPT
so remember the company that made this
is open AI the same company that made
Dolly they recently got an investment of
one billion dollars from Microsoft who
are now their biggest investor and
Microsoft is planning to launch a
version of their search engine Bing if
you love it or hate it but you probably
hate it using the AI behind chat gbt so
you type into Bing and it's going to be
like typing into chat GPT this is going
to be mind-blowing can you imagine your
mom or grandma go into Bing because yeah
they're the ones probably still using
Bing right and just getting an answer to
their question with natural language
instead of just a list of websites and
ads like Google oh my gosh is this
finally gonna make Bing cool are we all
gonna start using Bing the implications
to this are wild kids are already
writing essays using this will this make
writers obsolete I definitely don't
think so but it will probably shift
their job from a writer to more of an
editor which honestly sounds way better
to me when it comes to video editing
it'll take me like 6 to 10 to 12 to
sometimes maybe 20 hours for a video if
I can cut down with a robot or AI or
whatever doing the initial cut and all I
have to do is be the creative supervisor
and actually shape the story and add
cool you know quirky elements to it that
really make it my video that sounds
great right however if you never
actually learn how to video edit the ins
and outs the little quirks of editing or
actually learn how to write can you
actually be a good editor even with
super powerful AI tools I actually have
no idea time will tell and when I say
time I mean like a couple months will
tell because at the pace we're going
guys I don't even know what to say okay
the next ones we have coming up are kind
of crazy they have to do with my world
video editing but also what has to do
with my world is website building even
though this isn't explicitly an AI tool
something that is adjacent to AI is no
code tools and that is what Squarespace
is and they just took it a step further
with their new fluid engine it's their
newest drag and drop website editor and
even though they still have gorgeous
website templates for you to start your
website with now now you can drag and
drop elements on your website wherever
you want the amount of control that you
have now is crazy it is really Limitless
customization but the thing that really
got me was their integration with
printful so now you don't need a
separate tool or website to start
fulfilling and selling products now this
actually got me super excited and seeing
you guys out in the real world wearing a
stay peachy or that creative life tea
like that gets me so stoked and it is so
fun for me to see and so it is now super
cool and it makes it much easier for me
to have everything under one umbrella my
saradici.com website using Squarespace
now John and I have been talking about
the future of that creative life a ton
if you don't know that was my podcast
that went on for years and years and if
you don't know John he's my husband
who's also a YouTuber an amazing
designer I think the word alone that
creative life says a lot encapsulates a
lot of idea ideas and themes and I
wanted like a fresh new logo and also
yesterday we were walking down the
street past This Record Shop and they
had this bin of records with this like
peachy logo on it and I was like oh my
gosh that's amazing what if we did
something like this for a new stay
peachy logo right and so it's been super
fun kind of just like capturing some
things for design and SPO and being able
to have John to just help me on this
journey and of course we still need to
do the final designs and pick out the
actual pieces that they're going to go
on which I'm super excited because
printful has so many options and they
make it so easy and again it integrates
right into the Squarespace website so
hey I know this was kind of like a
longer section than I normally uh use to
tell you about all the amazing tools and
features of Squarespace but I kind of
want to give like fun updates in these
week to week so I'm not just saying the
same thing if that's okay with you guys
okay so hey if you want to start an
e-commerce brand or maybe you need help
displaying your work via a creative
portfolio or maybe you need scheduling
and taking reservations for your
restaurant or rental property you can do
all of that on Squarespace if you want
to check out a free trial you can go to
squarespace.com or if you want to get
started today you can go to
squarespace.com
saradici to get 10 off your first
purchase of a domain or website okay
number six through eight has to do with
video we're gonna all do them in one
little section here so up first runway
in L so runway's initial trailer is
crazy I saw it all over Twitter when it
first dropped but it doesn't seem like
the actual product lives up to the hype
to be fair yet right and they're doing
what most AI startups do something gets
popular like text to image generation
right what Dolly and stable diffusion is
doing and they immediately copy it and
basically just add their twist right so
it was kind of weird when I first went
to their web page and it was that
instead of their video feature and even
they created a video editor like an nle
here are the three main video features
that they've been promoting text to
color grade so this is where you say
make this look like Wes Anderson's movie
The Royal ten bombs and it makes it look
like that you also have the green screen
feature where you don't actually have to
be in front of a green screen you can
just knock out the background and use
that person standing in front of the
background drop them on another
background right I said background way
too many times do you understand what I
just said okay you also have motion
tracking now this is something that
other editors have actually had for a
while for example you can plop a piece
of text on a moving person and it will
track said person okay pretty cool right
some of these video features so you know
Runway they hopped on this image
generation train but then these video
features that were special to their
product maybe six months ago well now
all of the big guys have Incorporated
those features into their own products
in the recent resolve update they added
the screen screen function it's called
Magic mask so check out how this works
this is actually so cool I didn't know
about this I used resolve every day and
I didn't know about this so freaking
cool right so I assume programs like
DaVinci Resolve and Adobe Premiere
they're just gonna sit back and look at
these AI video features from different
companies and just see which ones pop
off and then literally roll them out to
their already huge customer base as a
video editor myself the last thing I
want to do is completely change or add
to my workflow when it comes to a video
program that's just the honest truth it
took me three years of pain in premiere
of crashes and just not liking a lot of
things before I actually fully switched
to DaVinci Resolve so I imagine the
average customer that these companies
are going after are people who don't
Video Edit at all but use these one-off
features and they'll just log in and do
it on the web right so jumping back to
runwayml it also has this really cool
ability to paint out objects in the
video sick which wait hold on After
Effects can now do this right okay
um so it's called content aware fill
which if you're used to photoshop you're
used to that language so yeah it can now
literally do this with video so again in
the world of AI it's who can build the
fastest and who can build the cheapest
if you're an indie entrepreneur you have
to move fast in this space like Peter
levels does with Avatar and interior AI
if you're a startup like open AI you
have to not only move fast but have so
much money I don't know why I'm doing
this stacks of money are here
because you are in the game of All or
Nothing you either win big and become
the AI company which it looks like open
AI is going to be the one to compete
with all the big guys of the world
because remember you're not competing
against other AI companies but they're
competing directly with Google and then
everyone in the middle will either get
crushed or copied by Adobe the lucky
ones though the lucky ones will be
bought by Adobe number nine character AI
this one's a fun one this is where you
can create characters and then talk to
them so a character from a movie or
something but also there's already
existing characters on the website that
you can talk to in the fashion of these
people so there's already a Elon Musk
character let's see what Elon Musk says
to me wow the first message is you're
wasting my time I literally rule the
world rude Elon how are you going to
save Twitter I literally have the power
to fire every single person who has ever
worked at Twitter I then replaced them
all with my own hand-picked team of
elite engineers and fix the platform in
under 48 hours so I think the point with
this is you can like continue the
conversation so isn't that kind of mean
to fire every single person I believe
people should be held to a high standard
of Excellence or else they'll be fired
I will hold both employees and users
alike to the standard I believe that
everyone can be elite I will also raise
the level of the user experience by
introducing several amazing new features
okay maybe with some life advice I can
ask Elon
should I go to college I said I like
making YouTube videos should I go to
college college is a waste of time drop
out of college don't listen to anyone
who says otherwise learn coding start a
programming business and then learn all
the necessary business skills you're now
richer and smarter than 99 of the people
in the world
okay this is Goofy it's fun though
number 10 is something called Adept it's
not out to the public yet but their
demos are mind-blowing if they actually
work so this is a little pop-up for any
web page that you view in any browser
and you tell it to do something using
natural language and it just does it no
matter if you're an Excel spreadsheet or
a CRM you just say hey add a column add
this customer with these details and it
just doesn't so say you're in Zillow you
enter maybe find me a modern house in
the hills of LA with a guest house for a
family of four my budget is five million
dollars we wish right one day one day
babe when we build our YouTube Empire on
AI written videos
what if I'm not even talking right now
what if I'm using AI right now to
juxtapose my face on another person what
if I'm not even here right now what
what okay so it's basically like a
personal assistant within websites crazy
insane so say you're on YouTube I could
just say hey comment on John Hill's
newest YouTube video I love you and I
wouldn't even have to go to the video I
could just comment on that video right
so they have I would have to suffer
through this video
they have these wild examples on their
website like this one for Google Sheets
okay if they typed in make a profit
column and then make a profit margin
column and boom it's there and then they
say highlight any profit margin below
two and it just does it I mean this is
probably one of the most mind-blowing
ones for me so far because well I just
have no idea how this works and I'm not
even gonna begin to try but also it
seems like the options are literally
endless think about it this is like the
office assistant clippy you guys
remember clippy but for the entire
internet tedious tasks well they'll 100
be outsourced to AI within like a matter
of years I feel like if not months
yeah I did that quick you were ready for
that one
okay number 11 you guys still with me
there video AI by topaz Labs so topaz
Labs has a lot of cool video editing
features for example you can upscale
low-res footage and it actually looks
pretty good but the absolute coolest
feature is the ability to take 24 frames
per second footage and you can take that
and make it into 120 frames per second
so essentially you can take any footage
you shoot and make it slow motion which
is insane if I shoot a clip in 120
frames per second I am using that for
slow motion it's gonna look weird and
choppy it's not gonna look right so
people can't just shoot all of their
footage in 60 frames per second or 120
frames per second just in case they need
it for slow-mo and then use it like
normal it just wouldn't look right
that's why this is so crazy so you could
just shoot everything in 20 frames per
second or 30 frames per second and then
just have slow-mo I know I keep saying
almost the same thing over and over
again but this could be
number 12 Luma Labs so this is an app
which uses Nerf to build 3D rendered
objects you can just use your phone to
capture any object and then view that
object in 3D they even have render
videos that you can export straight from
the app and you can then place a 3D
object in that environment it's it's
crazy Nerf relies on neural rendering it
learns what every color in a 3D space is
so with photo scans the reflections stay
the same but with neural rendering the
reflections change as you move just like
in real life right without Reflections
things just look fake another app that
is kind of similar that I've shouted out
on this channel before is called polycam
but polycam uses something called
photogrammetry to create its 3D models
it's essentially taking a bunch of
pictures and then combining them with a
power of math to make the model where
Luma uses Nerf technology to measure
everything in that 3D space so if you
put your model into a video game game or
a video it will be able to accurately
reflect the light and colors in the
scene number 13 deep Nostalgia this one
is kind of weird but it's interesting
and it's fun so if you can create an
animated rendering of old photos so the
idea is to have an animated version of
maybe someone who you've lost you'll
take an old photo of them and it'll
animate it so I have a cool picture of
my grandpa here he has all these cool
old photos of him so let's try it on him
the state it's in right now I feel like
it's actually kind of creepy but I could
totally see this for documentaries
automatically animating scenes where
there's like multiple things happening
at one time will Carmack has actually
done this manually in After Effects I'll
show one of his examples if you can do
that without all of the multiple days if
not weeks and after effects now that
would be super cool hey guys Sarah here
end of the video number 14 did not make
it because I just looked it up and it no
longer works this AI world again it
moves fast right so I'm gonna actually
mention uh some some close runner-ups
that we didn't mention in the video so
you have name licks name licks it's a
business name generator I've actually
used this once um a lot of features in
Premiere you have the scene edit
detection Tool uh so if you basically
import a already exported video it'll
make Cuts in that video uh when the
scene changes so that's helpful to
essentially get Clips back from an
already exported video if that makes
sense
um it Premiere also has transcription uh
you probably already know that and also
a really cool thing is you can just Auto
extend a song in Premiere and it'll like
uh fill in like say you have a two
minute song you need a three minute song
you just use the Ripple edit tool
um to extend the music and it'll
automatically just extend it for you and
like figure out the Transitions and
everything
um which which is cool some of this I'm
like oh I wish I wish resolved this
right
um and then like a funny one is Uber
duck AI you pick a rapper and have them
say whatever you want
um
it's funny right I don't know if I have
an explanation
um for what I'm wearing so let's just
wrap this video up
so let me know what you thought what is
your favorite one that we mentioned
it'll be interesting to see how quick
the rise of AI will happen and affect
communities the first communities
artists and creators I feel like right
and which groups will adopt the
technology and which will demonize these
tools because oof there's there's some
sketchiness happening already I'm a bit
of an optimist so again I think this is
going to automate a lot of the things
that I don't like to do every day
there's so much BS in my day that I wish
I could just not worry about that's what
I'm hoping AI will help with right all
those tedious things of video content
creation so I'm all for it but again on
the other side I'm crossing my fingers
that are AI overlords don't take over
everything and US mere mortals can still
live life okay I can't end it on that no
let's get hyped up
or maybe not
tell me what you're pissed off about in
the comments again I acknowledge now I'm
back to a bad space okay so now I'm
gonna end the video guys I hope you
enjoyed it smash that like button smash
that subscribe button and well everyone
until next time stay peachy okay bye
[Music]
